We saw that our current results showed great fit for our model on the training data.
However, these results are falling short on the test data.
This is a prime example of overfitting.
Overfitting is when we are able to
build a model that will perform well on the data it has
seen before but it isn't able to predict well on new situations.
Consider we're trying to predict the height of
individuals and we collect information from five people.
We have their name, their gender,
their dad's height, and their mom's height.
If I want to predict the heights of people within this dataset,
I'm going to use their name to predict the height because I can perfectly predict that
Emily is 5'4 and Jim is 5'10 just by knowing their names.
However, with the strategy for the next Emily I see,
I will again expect that she's 5'4 and just based on the name,
the next Jim I see will be 5'10.
This will likely lead to some very poor predictions as
the name of a person is not actually well correlated to their height in general.
It was very specific to only the data we trained our model on.
A better modeling technique for extending to new individuals would be to use
these other features and find patterns that would extend to new Emilys and new Jims.
By splitting our data into training and test sets,
we can ensure that the features we find to be related to height in
the training data are actually helpful for
predicting height of individuals that aren't in our dataset.
Notice using name wouldn't work well in this situation because what would we even do
here with names in the training data
that don't match any of the names in the testing data?
We wouldn't be able to make any predictions on these observations
with a model train only on these names of these individuals.
However, this problem can be true in lots of cases.
This is related to what we call the cold start problem.
But we'll talk more about this later.